 
SAP IMPLEMENTATION  
 
END USER MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
 

 
CIAL_SAP_PS_EUM_05_ESTIMATION PREPARATION 

 

  

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                                                                                       PREPARED BY  

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         1 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                ABBREVATIONS 

ABBREVATION 

DESCRIPTION 

CIAL 

 

Cochin International Airport Ltd. 

 

 

                CHANGE HISTORY 

Version 

Description 

Created by  Date 

Reviewed by 

Date 

 
Shiv 
Shanker 

 
26.12.2013 

 
 

 

 
1.0 
 

 
Estimation 
Preparation 
and Upload 
Estimates to 
Project 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         2 

 
 

1. 
 
 
 

Estimation Prepration and Upload Estimates to Project   

4 

 Table of Contents 

                    Confidential                                                         3 

 

1.  Estimation Prepration and Upload Estimates to Project 
 
 
 

Overview 

 
Trigger:  
 
This procedure will be used to make changes to business partner master that has previously been 
created. 
 

Business Process Description Overview 

 

This transaction will change existing business partner master record. 

 

Input - Required Fields 

Field Value / Comments 

BP No. 

Seven character code 

 
 

 
 
 

1.1. 

Access the transaction by: 

Procedural Steps 

Via Transaction Code 

ZMM012 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         4 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

  Enter the transaction code “ ZMM012” in command window to open the estimation tool screen 

 

  Select “Project” radio button under category of estimates. 
  Select radio button “Estimation by CIAL”. (Separate EUM is designed to plan external 

consultant estimates). 

  Select respective department radio button. E.g. Electrical 

 

                    Confidential                                                         5 

 

 
 

 

 

  Repo Version : Enter Repository Version E.g. 2012 

 

Estimation tool screen 

  Project ID      : Select the project ID from the dropdown list and press enter button on the key 

board.  
 

  Work Package: Select work package for which you want to plan the estimates and press enter 

button on the key board. 
 

  BOQ Header: Select the respective BOQ header to plan the BOQ items (Supply Items and 

Service Items) 
 

  Network: Network assigned to the respective work package will be displayed. 

 

  Cost Index: System prompts the user to enter the cost index after selecting DSR items from 

repository to estimation tool. 
 

  Purchase Group: Dropdown list will display all department wise Purchase group.  

 
Note: One of the parameters in purchase order approval is purchase group. Therefore while 
selecting the purchase group in estimation tool, user must ensure that he is selecting the 
appropriate purchase group.  
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         6 

 

 

 

  Search Repository: User can enter the short text and search repository. System displays all 

items that starts with specific short text for user selection.  
 
Note: BOQ items that are to be selected in estimation tool should be maintained in repository. 
 

  Add Material: Provision is given to attach material component directly under service 

activities.  
In this case material components are not created under separate internal activity in project. 
This option can be used when not given grater significance for project scheduling and tracking 
the actual dates of the material components. 

  Save Estimates: Provision is given to partially save the estimates. System save’s the 

estimates with work package name and 2 digit running number. Please note after uploading 
partial estimates to project, user will have to access the estimates by entering estimation 
number for any changes.  
 

  Upload Estimates: Upload estimates from estimation tool to work package in project. BOQ 

items are created as external activities and material components (supply items) with detailed 
item text, qty required and price per unit. 

  Available Project Budget: System display overall available budget in project.  

 
Note – Budget has to be allocated to the project by finance department in order to see the 
available project budget in estimation tool. 
  

  Estimated Total Cost: System display estimated total cost of the work package in this field. 

 

  Estimation number: System generates estimation number after successful upload of 
estimates to project. Latest estimation number will be available in user defined field of 
external activity in project.  

 

 

  Partial Est. No: System save’s existing estimates with partial estimation number. Partial 

estimation number contain the work package and running number. After saving the estimates, 
user can open partial estimation by selecting the partial estimation number from the 
dropdown list. 
 

  Rate analysis attachment: If final rate is more than the base rate for an item, system 

prompts the user to attach detailed rate analysis for that line item. This attachment will be 
available on click of the estimation number hyperlink in estimation tool for the estimation 
approvers. 
 

  Estimated Days: User needs to enter the estimated days to complete the line item work. E.g. 

10 days. 

 

Note: Only for DSR items, the base rate of the item is multiplied with the cost index to arrive 
at the final rate for the item.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         7 

 

  Item Category:  

 

 

 

o 

It is applicable for supply items only.  

o  Material items are to be selected as “L or N”.  

  “L” represents – Stock Items 
  “N” represents – Non-Stock Items 

o  Supply Item that are to be taken into general stock from the project stock after 

completion of work as to be selected as “L” – Stock Items. Goods receipts posting for 
stock items leads to bring the material into project stock. These materials needs to be 
issued to the project for consumption and remaining material can be transferred from 
project stock to general inventory.  
 

o  Supply items that needn’t be taken into general stock and any left over stock will be 

taken over by the contractor can be taken as “N” – Non –stock items. Goods receipts 
posting for these items leads to consumption posting.  

  Select work package from the dropdown list press enter button on the keyboard. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         8 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

  Select BOQ header from the dropdown list and press enter button on the keyboard. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         9 

 

  Select purchase group from the dropdown list. 

 

Note:  One  of  the  parameters  in  purchase  order  approval  is  purchase  group.  Therefore  while 
selecting  the  purchase  group  in  estimation  tool,  user  must  ensure  that  he  is  selecting  the 
appropriate purchase group. 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         10 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

  Available project budget will be displayed in the field. 

 
Note: For this information to be available in estimates, budget needs to be distributed from 
Investment Program structure to the project. Budget distribution will be performed by the 
responsible person from finance department.  

 

                    Confidential                                                         11 

  Enter short text and press search repository button to search for DSR/NDSR items. 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         12 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Short text search items available for user selection in repository. 

 

 

                    Confidential                                                         13 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Press the icon to view the long text of the BOQ item. 
  Select BOQ items by clicking button on the extreme left of the item. 
  Press select button on the screen to bring items into estimation screen. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         14 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  BOQ items are selected from repository to estimation tool. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         15 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Final rate and quantity required are entered for NDSR items in the above screen.  

 

                    Confidential                                                         16 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Item category: For material items, system prompts the user select “L/N” as item category. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         17 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Select “L” for material to be taken as project stock item.  

 

                    Confidential                                                         18 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Item category “L” selected. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         19 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  System prompting the user to attach market rate analysis attachment for the line item. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         20 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Press button to attached the market rate analysis document for the line item. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         21 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Select the attachment and upload. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         22 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  File uploaded message appears on the screen. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         23 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Change the BOQ header and plan BOQ header specific items from repository.  

 

                    Confidential                                                         24 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Enter short text and search items from repository. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         25 

 

 
 

  Select BOQ items from repository.

 

                    Confidential                                                         26 

 

  Click long text icon to see the long text of the BOQ item  

 

                    Confidential                                                         27 

 
 

  Select BOQ items required and press select button the bottom right of the screen. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         28 

  System prompting the user to enter cost index as DSR items are selected from repository to 

estimation tool. 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         29 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Cost index entered 
  System prompting the user to enter the quantity for the BOQ items. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         30 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  Click save estimates to partially save the estimated. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         31 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

  Return back from estimation screen. 

                    Confidential                                                         32 

 

 

  Select and enter partial estimation number from the dropdown list. 

 
 

 
 

 

                    Confidential                                                         33 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

  Click on open push button. 

 

                    Confidential                                                         34 

  Partial saved estimates opened in the estimation screen for additions/deletion and changes of qty 

rate etc.   

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                    Confidential                                                         35 

 
 

 
 
 

  After completing estimation preparation, press button “Upload BOQ to Project” 

 

                    Confidential                                                         36 

 
 
 
 
 

 

  After successful upload of estimates, system generates message – BOQ uploaded 

                    Confidential                                                         37 

